v1/README_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery.md, before:

Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery Template
---
Batch pipeline. Reads text files stored in Cloud Storage, transforms them using a JavaScript user-defined function (UDF), and outputs the result to BigQuery.

:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-storage-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=GCS_Text_to_BigQuery).


:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **inputFilePattern** (Cloud Storage Input File(s)): Path of the file pattern glob to read from. (Example: gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv).
* **JSONPath** (Cloud Storage location of your BigQuery schema file, described as a JSON): JSON file with BigQuery Schema description. JSON Example: {
	"BigQuery Schema": [
		{
			"name": "location",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "name",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "age",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "color",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "coffee",
			"type": "STRING"
		}
	]
}.
* **outputTable** (BigQuery output table): BigQuery table location to write the output to. The table's schema must match the input objects.
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** (Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process): Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp_dir).

### Optional Parameters

* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** (JavaScript UDF path in Cloud Storage): The Cloud Storage path pattern for the JavaScript code containing your user-defined functions.
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** (JavaScript UDF name): The name of the function to call from your JavaScript file. Use only letters, digits, and underscores. (Example: transform_udf1).


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=/v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/TextIOToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/GCS_Text_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/GCS_Text_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "JSONPath=$JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,JSONPath=$JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

Commit message:

Add -DtempLocation parameter to TemplatesStageMojo
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery.md, after:

Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery Template
---
Batch pipeline. Reads text files stored in Cloud Storage, transforms them using a JavaScript user-defined function (UDF), and outputs the result to BigQuery.

:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-storage-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=GCS_Text_to_BigQuery).


:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **inputFilePattern** (Cloud Storage Input File(s)): Path of the file pattern glob to read from. (Example: gs://your-bucket/path/*.csv).
* **JSONPath** (Cloud Storage location of your BigQuery schema file, described as a JSON): JSON file with BigQuery Schema description. JSON Example: {
	"BigQuery Schema": [
		{
			"name": "location",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "name",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "age",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "color",
			"type": "STRING"
		},
		{
			"name": "coffee",
			"type": "STRING"
		}
	]
}.
* **outputTable** (BigQuery output table): BigQuery table location to write the output to. The table's schema must match the input objects.
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** (Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process): Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp_dir).

### Optional Parameters

* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** (JavaScript UDF path in Cloud Storage): The Cloud Storage path pattern for the JavaScript code containing your user-defined functions.
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** (JavaScript UDF name): The name of the function to call from your JavaScript file. Use only letters, digits, and underscores. (Example: transform_udf1).


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=/v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/TextIOToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/GCS_Text_to_BigQuery
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/GCS_Text_to_BigQuery"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>

gcloud dataflow jobs run "gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "JSONPath=$JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="gcs-text-to-bigquery-job" \
-DtemplateName="GCS_Text_to_BigQuery" \
-Dparameters="inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,JSONPath=$JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```
