v1/README_Word_Count.md, before:

Word Count Template
---
Batch pipeline. Reads text from Cloud Storage, tokenizes text lines into individual words, and performs frequency count on each of the words.

:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided-templates)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Word_Count).


:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **inputFile** (Input file(s) in Cloud Storage): The input file pattern Dataflow reads from. Use the example file (gs://dataflow-samples/shakespeare/kinglear.txt) or enter the path to your own using the same format: gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt.
* **output** (Output Cloud Storage file prefix): Path and filename prefix for writing output files. Ex: gs://your-bucket/counts.

### Optional Parameters




## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=/v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/WordCount.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Word_Count" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Word_Count
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Word_Count"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE=<inputFile>
export OUTPUT=<output>

### Optional

gcloud dataflow jobs run "word-count-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFile=$INPUT_FILE" \
  --parameters "output=$OUTPUT"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE=<inputFile>
export OUTPUT=<output>

### Optional

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="word-count-job" \
-DtemplateName="Word_Count" \
-Dparameters="inputFile=$INPUT_FILE,output=$OUTPUT" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

Commit message:

Add -DtempLocation parameter to TemplatesStageMojo
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_Word_Count.md, after:

Word Count Template
---
Batch pipeline. Reads text from Cloud Storage, tokenizes text lines into individual words, and performs frequency count on each of the words.

:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided-templates)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Word_Count).


:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **inputFile** (Input file(s) in Cloud Storage): The input file pattern Dataflow reads from. Use the example file (gs://dataflow-samples/shakespeare/kinglear.txt) or enter the path to your own using the same format: gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt.
* **output** (Output Cloud Storage file prefix): Path and filename prefix for writing output files. Ex: gs://your-bucket/counts.

### Optional Parameters




## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=/v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/WordCount.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Word_Count" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Word_Count
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Word_Count"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE=<inputFile>
export OUTPUT=<output>

### Optional

gcloud dataflow jobs run "word-count-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "inputFile=$INPUT_FILE" \
  --parameters "output=$OUTPUT"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE=<inputFile>
export OUTPUT=<output>

### Optional

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="word-count-job" \
-DtemplateName="Word_Count" \
-Dparameters="inputFile=$INPUT_FILE,output=$OUTPUT" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```
