v1/README_Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro.md, before:

Cloud Spanner to Avro Files on Cloud Storage Template
---
A pipeline to export a Cloud Spanner database to a set of Avro files in Cloud Storage.

:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-spanner-to-avro)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro).


:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **instanceId** (Cloud Spanner instance id): The instance id of the Cloud Spanner database that you want to export.
* **databaseId** (Cloud Spanner database id): The database id of the Cloud Spanner database that you want to export.
* **outputDir** (Cloud Storage output directory): The Cloud Storage path where the Avro files should be exported to. A new directory will be created under this path that contains the export. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-path).

### Optional Parameters

* **avroTempDirectory** (Cloud Storage temp directory for storing Avro files): The Cloud Storage path where the temporary Avro files can be created. Ex: gs://your-bucket/your-path.
* **spannerHost** (Cloud Spanner Endpoint to call): The Cloud Spanner endpoint to call in the template. Only used for testing. (Example: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com). Defaults to: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com.
* **snapshotTime** (Snapshot time): Specifies the snapshot time as RFC 3339 format in UTC time without the timezone offset(always ends in 'Z'). Timestamp must be in the past and Maximum timestamp staleness applies. See https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/timestamp-bounds#maximum_timestamp_staleness (Example: 1990-12-31T23:59:59Z). Defaults to empty.
* **spannerProjectId** (Cloud Spanner Project Id): The project id of the Cloud Spanner instance.
* **shouldExportTimestampAsLogicalType** (Export Timestamps as Timestamp-micros type): If true, Timestamps are exported as timestamp-micros type. Timestamps are exported as ISO8601 strings at nanosecond precision by default.
* **tableNames** (Cloud Spanner table name(s).): If provided, only this comma separated list of tables are exported. Ancestor tables and tables that are referenced via foreign keys are required. If not explicitly listed, the `shouldExportRelatedTables` flag must be set for a successful export. Defaults to empty.
* **shouldExportRelatedTables** (Export necessary Related Spanner tables.): Used in conjunction with `tableNames`. If true, add related tables necessary for the export, such as interleaved parent tables and foreign keys tables.  If `tableNames` is specified but doesn't include related tables, this option must be set to true for a successful export. Defaults to: false.
* **spannerPriority** (Priority for Spanner RPC invocations): The request priority for Cloud Spanner calls. The value must be one of: [HIGH,MEDIUM,LOW].
* **dataBoostEnabled** (Use independent compute resource (Spanner DataBoost).): Use Spanner on-demand compute so the export job will run on independent compute resources and have no impact to current Spanner workloads. This will incur additional charges in Spanner. Defaults to: false.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=/v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/spanner/ExportPipeline.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro"

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export OUTPUT_DIR=<outputDir>

### Optional
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_HOST="https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
export SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE="false"
export TABLE_NAMES=""
export SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES="false"
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED="false"

gcloud dataflow jobs run "cloud-spanner-to-gcs-avro-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "databaseId=$DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "outputDir=$OUTPUT_DIR" \
  --parameters "avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST" \
  --parameters "snapshotTime=$SNAPSHOT_TIME" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "shouldExportTimestampAsLogicalType=$SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE" \
  --parameters "tableNames=$TABLE_NAMES" \
  --parameters "shouldExportRelatedTables=$SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES" \
  --parameters "spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY" \
  --parameters "dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export OUTPUT_DIR=<outputDir>

### Optional
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_HOST="https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
export SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE="false"
export TABLE_NAMES=""
export SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES="false"
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED="false"

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-spanner-to-gcs-avro-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro" \
-Dparameters="instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID,databaseId=$DATABASE_ID,outputDir=$OUTPUT_DIR,avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY,spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST,snapshotTime=$SNAPSHOT_TIME,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,shouldExportTimestampAsLogicalType=$SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE,tableNames=$TABLE_NAMES,shouldExportRelatedTables=$SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES,spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY,dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

Commit message:

Generate documentation with the new format / text wrapping

v1/README_Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro.md, after:


Cloud Spanner to Avro Files on Cloud Storage template
---
The Cloud Spanner to Avro Files on Cloud Storage template is a batch pipeline
that exports a whole Cloud Spanner database to Cloud Storage in Avro format.
Exporting a Cloud Spanner database creates a folder in the bucket you select. The
folder contains:
- A `spanner-export.json` file.
- A `TableName-manifest.json` file for each table in the database you exported.
- One or more `TableName.avro-#####-of-#####` files.

For example, exporting a database with two tables, Singers and Albums, creates
the following file set:
- `Albums-manifest.json`
- `Albums.avro-00000-of-00002`
- `Albums.avro-00001-of-00002`
- `Singers-manifest.json`
- `Singers.avro-00000-of-00003`
- `Singers.avro-00001-of-00003`
- `Singers.avro-00002-of-00003`
- `spanner-export.json`.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-spanner-to-avro)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **instanceId** (Cloud Spanner instance id): The instance id of the Cloud Spanner database that you want to export.
* **databaseId** (Cloud Spanner database id): The database id of the Cloud Spanner database that you want to export.
* **outputDir** (Cloud Storage output directory): The Cloud Storage path where the Avro files should be exported to. A new directory will be created under this path that contains the export. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-path).

### Optional Parameters

* **avroTempDirectory** (Cloud Storage temp directory for storing Avro files): The Cloud Storage path where the temporary Avro files can be created. Ex: gs://your-bucket/your-path.
* **spannerHost** (Cloud Spanner Endpoint to call): The Cloud Spanner endpoint to call in the template. Only used for testing. (Example: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com). Defaults to: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com.
* **snapshotTime** (Snapshot time): Specifies the snapshot time as RFC 3339 format in UTC time without the timezone offset(always ends in 'Z'). Timestamp must be in the past and Maximum timestamp staleness applies. See https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/timestamp-bounds#maximum_timestamp_staleness (Example: 1990-12-31T23:59:59Z). Defaults to empty.
* **spannerProjectId** (Cloud Spanner Project Id): The project id of the Cloud Spanner instance.
* **shouldExportTimestampAsLogicalType** (Export Timestamps as Timestamp-micros type): If true, Timestamps are exported as timestamp-micros type. Timestamps are exported as ISO8601 strings at nanosecond precision by default.
* **tableNames** (Cloud Spanner table name(s).): If provided, only this comma separated list of tables are exported. Ancestor tables and tables that are referenced via foreign keys are required. If not explicitly listed, the `shouldExportRelatedTables` flag must be set for a successful export. Defaults to empty.
* **shouldExportRelatedTables** (Export necessary Related Spanner tables.): Used in conjunction with `tableNames`. If true, add related tables necessary for the export, such as interleaved parent tables and foreign keys tables.  If `tableNames` is specified but doesn't include related tables, this option must be set to true for a successful export. Defaults to: false.
* **spannerPriority** (Priority for Spanner RPC invocations): The request priority for Cloud Spanner calls. The value must be one of: [HIGH,MEDIUM,LOW].
* **dataBoostEnabled** (Use independent compute resource (Spanner DataBoost).): Use Spanner on-demand compute so the export job will run on independent compute resources and have no impact to current Spanner workloads. This will incur additional charges in Spanner. Defaults to: false.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/spanner/ExportPipeline.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro"

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export OUTPUT_DIR=<outputDir>

### Optional
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_HOST=https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com
export SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE=false
export TABLE_NAMES=""
export SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES=false
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED=false

gcloud dataflow jobs run "cloud-spanner-to-gcs-avro-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "databaseId=$DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "outputDir=$OUTPUT_DIR" \
  --parameters "avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST" \
  --parameters "snapshotTime=$SNAPSHOT_TIME" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "shouldExportTimestampAsLogicalType=$SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE" \
  --parameters "tableNames=$TABLE_NAMES" \
  --parameters "shouldExportRelatedTables=$SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES" \
  --parameters "spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY" \
  --parameters "dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INSTANCE_ID=<instanceId>
export DATABASE_ID=<databaseId>
export OUTPUT_DIR=<outputDir>

### Optional
export AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<avroTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_HOST=https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com
export SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE=false
export TABLE_NAMES=""
export SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES=false
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED=false

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-spanner-to-gcs-avro-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_GCS_Avro" \
-Dparameters="instanceId=$INSTANCE_ID,databaseId=$DATABASE_ID,outputDir=$OUTPUT_DIR,avroTempDirectory=$AVRO_TEMP_DIRECTORY,spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST,snapshotTime=$SNAPSHOT_TIME,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,shouldExportTimestampAsLogicalType=$SHOULD_EXPORT_TIMESTAMP_AS_LOGICAL_TYPE,tableNames=$TABLE_NAMES,shouldExportRelatedTables=$SHOULD_EXPORT_RELATED_TABLES,spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY,dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```
