v1/README_Spanner_to_GCS_Text.md, before:

Cloud Spanner to Text Files on Cloud Storage Template
---
A pipeline which reads in Cloud Spanner table and writes it to Cloud Storage as CSV text files.

:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-spanner-to-cloud-storage)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Spanner_to_GCS_Text).


:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **spannerTable** (Spanner Table): Spanner Table to read from.
* **spannerProjectId** (Read data from Cloud Spanner Project Id): The Google Cloud Project Id of the Cloud Spanner database that you want to read data from.
* **spannerInstanceId** (Read data from Cloud Spanner Instance): Instance of requested table.
* **spannerDatabaseId** (Read data from Cloud Spanner Database ): Database of requested table.
* **textWritePrefix** (Output file directory in Cloud Storage): The path and filename prefix for writing output files. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-path).

### Optional Parameters

* **csvTempDirectory** (Cloud Storage temp directory for storing CSV files): The Cloud Storage path where the temporary CSV files can be stored. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-path).
* **spannerPriority** (Priority for Spanner RPC invocations): The request priority for Cloud Spanner calls. The value must be one of: [HIGH,MEDIUM,LOW].
* **spannerHost** (Cloud Spanner Endpoint to call): The Cloud Spanner endpoint to call in the template. Only used for testing. (Example: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com). Defaults to: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com.
* **spannerSnapshotTime** (Snapshot time): If set, specifies the time when the snapshot must be taken. String is in the RFC 3339 format in UTC time.  Timestamp must be in the past and Maximum timestamp staleness applies.https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/timestamp-bounds#maximum_timestamp_staleness (Example: 1990-12-31T23:59:60Z). Defaults to empty.
* **dataBoostEnabled** (Use independent compute resource (Spanner DataBoost).): Use Spanner on-demand compute so the export job will run on independent compute resources and have no impact to current Spanner workloads. This will incur additional charges in Spanner. Defaults to: false.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=/v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/SpannerToText.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_GCS_Text" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Spanner_to_GCS_Text
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Spanner_to_GCS_Text"

### Required
export SPANNER_TABLE=<spannerTable>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX=<textWritePrefix>

### Optional
export CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<csvTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export SPANNER_HOST="https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
export SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED=false

gcloud dataflow jobs run "spanner-to-gcs-text-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "csvTempDirectory=$CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY" \
  --parameters "spannerTable=$SPANNER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST" \
  --parameters "spannerSnapshotTime=$SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME" \
  --parameters "dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED" \
  --parameters "textWritePrefix=$TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export SPANNER_TABLE=<spannerTable>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX=<textWritePrefix>

### Optional
export CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<csvTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export SPANNER_HOST="https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
export SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED=false

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="spanner-to-gcs-text-job" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_GCS_Text" \
-Dparameters="csvTempDirectory=$CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY,spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY,spannerTable=$SPANNER_TABLE,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID,spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID,spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST,spannerSnapshotTime=$SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME,dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED,textWritePrefix=$TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

Commit message:

Add -DtempLocation parameter to TemplatesStageMojo
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Kinard <jeff@thekinards.com>

v1/README_Spanner_to_GCS_Text.md, after:

Cloud Spanner to Text Files on Cloud Storage Template
---
A pipeline which reads in Cloud Spanner table and writes it to Cloud Storage as CSV text files.

:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/cloud-spanner-to-cloud-storage)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Spanner_to_GCS_Text).


:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **spannerTable** (Spanner Table): Spanner Table to read from.
* **spannerProjectId** (Read data from Cloud Spanner Project Id): The Google Cloud Project Id of the Cloud Spanner database that you want to read data from.
* **spannerInstanceId** (Read data from Cloud Spanner Instance): Instance of requested table.
* **spannerDatabaseId** (Read data from Cloud Spanner Database ): Database of requested table.
* **textWritePrefix** (Output file directory in Cloud Storage): The path and filename prefix for writing output files. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-path).

### Optional Parameters

* **csvTempDirectory** (Cloud Storage temp directory for storing CSV files): The Cloud Storage path where the temporary CSV files can be stored. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-path).
* **spannerPriority** (Priority for Spanner RPC invocations): The request priority for Cloud Spanner calls. The value must be one of: [HIGH,MEDIUM,LOW].
* **spannerHost** (Cloud Spanner Endpoint to call): The Cloud Spanner endpoint to call in the template. Only used for testing. (Example: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com). Defaults to: https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com.
* **spannerSnapshotTime** (Snapshot time): If set, specifies the time when the snapshot must be taken. String is in the RFC 3339 format in UTC time.  Timestamp must be in the past and Maximum timestamp staleness applies.https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/timestamp-bounds#maximum_timestamp_staleness (Example: 1990-12-31T23:59:60Z). Defaults to empty.
* **dataBoostEnabled** (Use independent compute resource (Spanner DataBoost).): Use Spanner on-demand compute so the export job will run on independent compute resources and have no impact to current Spanner workloads. This will incur additional charges in Spanner. Defaults to: false.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=/v1/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/templates/SpannerToText.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Classic Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
executed only once and the pipeline will be saved to Google Cloud Storage for
further reuse. Please check [Creating classic Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/creating-templates)
and [Running classic templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/running-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_GCS_Text" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```

The `-DgcpTempLocation=<temp-bucket-name>` parameter can be specified to set the GCS bucket used by the DataflowRunner to write
temp files to during serialization. The path used will be `gs://<temp-bucket-name>/temp/`.

The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Classic Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/Spanner_to_GCS_Text
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/Spanner_to_GCS_Text"

### Required
export SPANNER_TABLE=<spannerTable>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX=<textWritePrefix>

### Optional
export CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<csvTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export SPANNER_HOST="https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
export SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED=false

gcloud dataflow jobs run "spanner-to-gcs-text-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "csvTempDirectory=$CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY" \
  --parameters "spannerTable=$SPANNER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST" \
  --parameters "spannerSnapshotTime=$SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME" \
  --parameters "dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED" \
  --parameters "textWritePrefix=$TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/jobs/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export SPANNER_TABLE=<spannerTable>
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=<spannerProjectId>
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX=<textWritePrefix>

### Optional
export CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY=<csvTempDirectory>
export SPANNER_PRIORITY=<spannerPriority>
export SPANNER_HOST="https://batch-spanner.googleapis.com"
export SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME=""
export DATA_BOOST_ENABLED=false

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="spanner-to-gcs-text-job" \
-DtemplateName="Spanner_to_GCS_Text" \
-Dparameters="csvTempDirectory=$CSV_TEMP_DIRECTORY,spannerPriority=$SPANNER_PRIORITY,spannerTable=$SPANNER_TABLE,spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID,spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID,spannerHost=$SPANNER_HOST,spannerSnapshotTime=$SPANNER_SNAPSHOT_TIME,dataBoostEnabled=$DATA_BOOST_ENABLED,textWritePrefix=$TEXT_WRITE_PREFIX" \
-pl v1 \
-am
```
