CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Thanks for your interest in contributing to the Google Cloud Teleport repo!

We are not currently merging pull requests, but plan to do so soon. If you have
contributions to make or improvements to suggest, please feel free to open an
issue or pull request; we will let you know when we are ready to accept
improvements.

To streamline the process when we begin accepting contributions, please fill out
a Google Contributor License Agreement. See instructions below.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License
Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution;
this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as
part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see
your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one
(even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it
again.

## Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more
information on using pull requests.

Commit message:

Add getting started instructions to CONTRIBUTING.md
PiperOrigin-RevId: 218724203

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Thanks for your interest in contributing to the Google Cloud Dataflow Templates
repo!

To get started contributing:

1. Sign a Contributor License Agreement (see details below).
1. Fork the repo, develop and test your code changes.
1. Ensure that your code adheres to the existing style.
1. Ensure that your code has an appropriate set of unit tests which all pass.
1. Run `mvn verify` to verify all tests and checks pass.
1. Submit a pull request.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License
Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution;
this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as
part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see
your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one
(even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it
again.

## Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more
information on using pull requests.
