v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/README_Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, before:


Spanner to BigQuery template
---
The Spanner to BigQuery template is a batch pipeline that reads data from a
Spanner table, and writes them to a BigQuery table.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/spanner-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **spannerInstanceId** (Spanner instance ID): The Spanner instance to read from.
* **spannerDatabaseId** (Spanner database ID): The Spanner database to read from.
* **spannerTableId** (Spanner table name): The Spanner table to read from.
* **sqlQuery** (Spanner query): Query used to read Spanner table.
* **outputTableSpec** (BigQuery output table): BigQuery table location to write the output to. The name should be in the format `<project>:<dataset>.<table_name>`. The table's schema must match input objects.

### Optional Parameters

* **spannerRpcPriority** (Priority for Spanner RPC invocations): The priority of Spanner job. Must be one of the following: [HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW]. Default is HIGH.
* **bigQuerySchemaPath** (Cloud Storage path to BigQuery JSON schema): The Cloud Storage path for the BigQuery JSON schema. If `createDisposition` is not set, or set to CREATE_IF_NEEDED, this parameter must be specified. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json).
* **writeDisposition** (Write Disposition to use for BigQuery): BigQuery WriteDisposition. For example, WRITE_APPEND, WRITE_EMPTY or WRITE_TRUNCATE. Defaults to: WRITE_APPEND.
* **createDisposition** (Create Disposition to use for BigQuery): BigQuery CreateDisposition. For example, CREATE_IF_NEEDED, CREATE_NEVER. Defaults to: CREATE_IF_NEEDED.
* **useStorageWriteApi** (Use BigQuery Storage Write API): If enabled (set to true) the pipeline will use Storage Write API when writing the data to BigQuery (see https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api). Defaults to: false.
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** (Use at at-least-once semantics in BigQuery Storage Write API): This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/SpannerToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud \
-am
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export SPANNER_TABLE_ID=<spannerTableId>
export SQL_QUERY=<sqlQuery>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY=<spannerRpcPriority>
export BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQuerySchemaPath>
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "cloud-spanner-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerTableId=$SPANNER_TABLE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerRpcPriority=$SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY" \
  --parameters "sqlQuery=$SQL_QUERY" \
  --parameters "bigQuerySchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export SPANNER_TABLE_ID=<spannerTableId>
export SQL_QUERY=<sqlQuery>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY=<spannerRpcPriority>
export BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQuerySchemaPath>
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-spanner-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID,spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID,spannerTableId=$SPANNER_TABLE_ID,spannerRpcPriority=$SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY,sqlQuery=$SQL_QUERY,bigQuerySchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH,outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC,writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION,createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud \
-am
```

Commit message:

[Spanner-to-BQ template] Add spannerProjectId parameter

v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/README_Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, after:


Spanner to BigQuery template
---
The Spanner to BigQuery template is a batch pipeline that reads data from a
Spanner table, and writes them to a BigQuery table.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/spanner-to-bigquery)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **spannerInstanceId** (Spanner instance ID): The Spanner instance to read from.
* **spannerDatabaseId** (Spanner database ID): The Spanner database to read from.
* **spannerTableId** (Spanner table name): The Spanner table to read from.
* **sqlQuery** (Spanner query): Query used to read Spanner table.
* **outputTableSpec** (BigQuery output table): BigQuery table location to write the output to. The name should be in the format `<project>:<dataset>.<table_name>`. The table's schema must match input objects.

### Optional Parameters

* **spannerProjectId** (Spanner Project ID): The project where the Spanner instance to read from is located. The default for this parameter is the project where the Dataflow pipeline is running.
* **spannerRpcPriority** (Priority for Spanner RPC invocations): The priority of Spanner job. Must be one of the following: [HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW]. Default is HIGH.
* **bigQuerySchemaPath** (Cloud Storage path to BigQuery JSON schema): The Cloud Storage path for the BigQuery JSON schema. If `createDisposition` is not set, or set to CREATE_IF_NEEDED, this parameter must be specified. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json).
* **writeDisposition** (Write Disposition to use for BigQuery): BigQuery WriteDisposition. For example, WRITE_APPEND, WRITE_EMPTY or WRITE_TRUNCATE. Defaults to: WRITE_APPEND.
* **createDisposition** (Create Disposition to use for BigQuery): BigQuery CreateDisposition. For example, CREATE_IF_NEEDED, CREATE_NEVER. Defaults to: CREATE_IF_NEEDED.
* **useStorageWriteApi** (Use BigQuery Storage Write API): If enabled (set to true) the pipeline will use Storage Write API when writing the data to BigQuery (see https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api). Defaults to: false.
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** (Use at at-least-once semantics in BigQuery Storage Write API): This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.



## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!
[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/SpannerToBigQuery.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud \
-am
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export SPANNER_TABLE_ID=<spannerTableId>
export SQL_QUERY=<sqlQuery>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=""
export SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY=<spannerRpcPriority>
export BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQuerySchemaPath>
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "cloud-spanner-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerTableId=$SPANNER_TABLE_ID" \
  --parameters "spannerRpcPriority=$SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY" \
  --parameters "sqlQuery=$SQL_QUERY" \
  --parameters "bigQuerySchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH" \
  --parameters "outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC" \
  --parameters "writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID=<spannerInstanceId>
export SPANNER_DATABASE_ID=<spannerDatabaseId>
export SPANNER_TABLE_ID=<spannerTableId>
export SQL_QUERY=<sqlQuery>
export OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC=<outputTableSpec>

### Optional
export SPANNER_PROJECT_ID=""
export SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY=<spannerRpcPriority>
export BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH=<bigQuerySchemaPath>
export WRITE_DISPOSITION=WRITE_APPEND
export CREATE_DISPOSITION=CREATE_IF_NEEDED
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="cloud-spanner-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="Cloud_Spanner_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="spannerProjectId=$SPANNER_PROJECT_ID,spannerInstanceId=$SPANNER_INSTANCE_ID,spannerDatabaseId=$SPANNER_DATABASE_ID,spannerTableId=$SPANNER_TABLE_ID,spannerRpcPriority=$SPANNER_RPC_PRIORITY,sqlQuery=$SQL_QUERY,bigQuerySchemaPath=$BIG_QUERY_SCHEMA_PATH,outputTableSpec=$OUTPUT_TABLE_SPEC,writeDisposition=$WRITE_DISPOSITION,createDisposition=$CREATE_DISPOSITION,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud \
-am
```
