v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/README_Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, before:


Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) template
---
The Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery pipeline is a streaming pipeline that
allows you to stream text files stored in Cloud Storage, transform them using a
JavaScript User Defined Function (UDF) that you provide, and append the result to
BigQuery.

The pipeline runs indefinitely and needs to be terminated manually via a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#cancel">cancel</a>
and not a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#drain">drain</a>,
due to its use of the
<code>Watch</code> transform, which is a splittable <code>DoFn</code> that does
not support
draining.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/text-to-bigquery-stream)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **inputFilePattern** (The GCS location of the text you'd like to process): The path to the Cloud Storage text to read. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt).
* **JSONPath** (JSON file with BigQuery Schema description): The Cloud Storage path to the JSON file that defines your BigQuery schema. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json).
* **outputTable** (Output table to write to): The location of the BigQuery table in which to store your processed data. If you reuse an existing table, it will be overwritten. (Example: your-project:your-dataset.your-table).
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** (GCS path to javascript fn for transforming output): The Cloud Storage path pattern for the JavaScript code containing your user-defined functions. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** (UDF Javascript Function Name): The name of the function to call from your JavaScript file. Use only letters, digits, and underscores. (Example: transform_udf1).
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** (Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process): Temporary directory for the BigQuery loading process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir).

### Optional Parameters

* **outputDeadletterTable** (The dead-letter table name to output failed messages to BigQuery): BigQuery table for failed messages. Messages failed to reach the output table for different reasons (e.g., mismatched schema, malformed json) are written to this table. If it doesn't exist, it will be created during pipeline execution. If not specified, "outputTableSpec_error_records" is used instead. (Example: your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name).
* **useStorageWriteApi** (Use BigQuery Storage Write API): If enabled (set to true) the pipeline will use Storage Write API when writing the data to BigQuery (see https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api). Defaults to: false.
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** (Use at at-least-once semantics in BigQuery Storage Write API): This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** (Number of streams for BigQuery Storage Write API): Number of streams defines the parallelism of the BigQueryIO’s Write transform and roughly corresponds to the number of Storage Write API’s streams which will be used by the pipeline. See https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api for the recommended values. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** (Triggering frequency in seconds for BigQuery Storage Write API): Triggering frequency will determine how soon the data will be visible for querying in BigQuery. See https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api for the recommended values.
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** (JavaScript UDF auto-reload interval (minutes)): Define the interval that workers may check for JavaScript UDF changes to reload the files. Defaults to: 0.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!



[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/TextToBigQueryStreaming.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin)
. Install the plugin with the following command before proceeding:

```shell
mvn clean install -pl plugins/templates-maven-plugin -am
```

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud \
-am
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "JSONPath=$JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,JSONPath=$JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
-pl v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud \
-am
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Here is an example of Terraform configuration:


```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "stream_gcs_text_to_bigquery_flex" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"
  name              = "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt"
    JSONPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json"
    outputTable = "your-project:your-dataset.your-table"
    javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js"
    javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "transform_udf1"
    bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory = "gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update docs replacing -pl {module} -am with -f
It's much faster, and we can do it now that we have the plugin and common modules staged to Maven central

v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/README_Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex.md, after:


Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) template
---
The Text Files on Cloud Storage to BigQuery pipeline is a streaming pipeline that
allows you to stream text files stored in Cloud Storage, transform them using a
JavaScript User Defined Function (UDF) that you provide, and append the result to
BigQuery.

The pipeline runs indefinitely and needs to be terminated manually via a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#cancel">cancel</a>
and not a
<a
href="https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/stopping-a-pipeline#drain">drain</a>,
due to its use of the
<code>Watch</code> transform, which is a splittable <code>DoFn</code> that does
not support
draining.


:memo: This is a Google-provided template! Please
check [Provided templates documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/provided/text-to-bigquery-stream)
on how to use it without having to build from sources using [Create job from template](https://console.cloud.google.com/dataflow/createjob?template=Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex).

:bulb: This is a generated documentation based
on [Metadata Annotations](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#metadata-annotations)
. Do not change this file directly.

## Parameters

### Required Parameters

* **inputFilePattern** (The GCS location of the text you'd like to process): The path to the Cloud Storage text to read. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt).
* **JSONPath** (JSON file with BigQuery Schema description): The Cloud Storage path to the JSON file that defines your BigQuery schema. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json).
* **outputTable** (Output table to write to): The location of the BigQuery table in which to store your processed data. If you reuse an existing table, it will be overwritten. (Example: your-project:your-dataset.your-table).
* **javascriptTextTransformGcsPath** (GCS path to javascript fn for transforming output): The Cloud Storage path pattern for the JavaScript code containing your user-defined functions. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js).
* **javascriptTextTransformFunctionName** (UDF Javascript Function Name): The name of the function to call from your JavaScript file. Use only letters, digits, and underscores. (Example: transform_udf1).
* **bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory** (Temporary directory for BigQuery loading process): Temporary directory for the BigQuery loading process. (Example: gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir).

### Optional Parameters

* **outputDeadletterTable** (The dead-letter table name to output failed messages to BigQuery): BigQuery table for failed messages. Messages failed to reach the output table for different reasons (e.g., mismatched schema, malformed json) are written to this table. If it doesn't exist, it will be created during pipeline execution. If not specified, "outputTableSpec_error_records" is used instead. (Example: your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name).
* **useStorageWriteApi** (Use BigQuery Storage Write API): If enabled (set to true) the pipeline will use Storage Write API when writing the data to BigQuery (see https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api). If this is enabled and at-least-once semantics (useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce) option is off then "Number of streams for BigQuery Storage Write API" and "Triggering frequency in seconds for BigQuery Storage Write API" must be provided. Defaults to: false.
* **useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce** (Use at at-least-once semantics in BigQuery Storage Write API): This parameter takes effect only if "Use BigQuery Storage Write API" is enabled. If enabled the at-least-once semantics will be used for Storage Write API, otherwise exactly-once semantics will be used. Defaults to: false.
* **numStorageWriteApiStreams** (Number of streams for BigQuery Storage Write API): Number of streams defines the parallelism of the BigQueryIO’s Write transform and roughly corresponds to the number of Storage Write API’s streams which will be used by the pipeline. See https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api for the recommended values. Defaults to: 0.
* **storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec** (Triggering frequency in seconds for BigQuery Storage Write API): Triggering frequency will determine how soon the data will be visible for querying in BigQuery. See https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/streaming-data-into-bigquery-using-storage-write-api for the recommended values.
* **javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes** (JavaScript UDF auto-reload interval (minutes)): Define the interval that workers may check for JavaScript UDF changes to reload the files. Defaults to: 0.


## User-Defined functions (UDFs)

The Cloud Storage Text to BigQuery (Stream) Template supports User-Defined functions (UDFs).
UDFs allow you to customize functionality by providing a JavaScript function
without having to maintain or build the entire template code.

Check [Create user-defined functions for Dataflow templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/create-template-udf)
and [Using UDFs](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#using-udfs)
for more information about how to create and test those functions.


## Getting Started

### Requirements

* Java 11
* Maven
* [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud), and execution of the
  following commands:
  * `gcloud auth login`
  * `gcloud auth application-default login`

:star2: Those dependencies are pre-installed if you use Google Cloud Shell!

[![Open in Cloud Shell](http://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2FDataflowTemplates.git&cloudshell_open_in_editor=v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud/src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/TextToBigQueryStreaming.java)

### Templates Plugin

This README provides instructions using
the [Templates Plugin](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/DataflowTemplates#templates-plugin). 

### Building Template

This template is a Flex Template, meaning that the pipeline code will be
containerized and the container will be executed on Dataflow. Please
check [Use Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/using-flex-templates)
and [Configure Flex Templates](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/templates/configuring-flex-templates)
for more information.

#### Staging the Template

If the plan is to just stage the template (i.e., make it available to use) by
the `gcloud` command or Dataflow "Create job from template" UI,
the `-PtemplatesStage` profile should be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>

mvn clean package -PtemplatesStage  \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-DstagePrefix="templates" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-f v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud
```


The command should build and save the template to Google Cloud, and then print
the complete location on Cloud Storage:

```
Flex Template was staged! gs://<bucket-name>/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex
```

The specific path should be copied as it will be used in the following steps.

#### Running the Template

**Using the staged template**:

You can use the path above run the template (or share with others for execution).

To start a job with the template at any time using `gcloud`, you are going to
need valid resources for the required parameters.

Provided that, the following command line can be used:

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1
export TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH="gs://$BUCKET_NAME/templates/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

gcloud dataflow flex-template run "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
  --project "$PROJECT" \
  --region "$REGION" \
  --template-file-gcs-location "$TEMPLATE_SPEC_GCSPATH" \
  --parameters "outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE" \
  --parameters "inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN" \
  --parameters "JSONPath=$JSONPATH" \
  --parameters "outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME" \
  --parameters "bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API" \
  --parameters "useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE" \
  --parameters "numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS" \
  --parameters "storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC" \
  --parameters "javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES"
```

For more information about the command, please check:
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run


**Using the plugin**:

Instead of just generating the template in the folder, it is possible to stage
and run the template in a single command. This may be useful for testing when
changing the templates.

```shell
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export BUCKET_NAME=<bucket-name>
export REGION=us-central1

### Required
export INPUT_FILE_PATTERN=<inputFilePattern>
export JSONPATH=<JSONPath>
export OUTPUT_TABLE=<outputTable>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH=<javascriptTextTransformGcsPath>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME=<javascriptTextTransformFunctionName>
export BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY=<bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory>

### Optional
export OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE=<outputDeadletterTable>
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API=false
export USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE=false
export NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS=0
export STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC=<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>
export JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES=0

mvn clean package -PtemplatesRun \
-DskipTests \
-DprojectId="$PROJECT" \
-DbucketName="$BUCKET_NAME" \
-Dregion="$REGION" \
-DjobName="stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex-job" \
-DtemplateName="Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex" \
-Dparameters="outputDeadletterTable=$OUTPUT_DEADLETTER_TABLE,inputFilePattern=$INPUT_FILE_PATTERN,JSONPath=$JSONPATH,outputTable=$OUTPUT_TABLE,javascriptTextTransformGcsPath=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_GCS_PATH,javascriptTextTransformFunctionName=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_FUNCTION_NAME,bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory=$BIG_QUERY_LOADING_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY,useStorageWriteApi=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API,useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce=$USE_STORAGE_WRITE_API_AT_LEAST_ONCE,numStorageWriteApiStreams=$NUM_STORAGE_WRITE_API_STREAMS,storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec=$STORAGE_WRITE_API_TRIGGERING_FREQUENCY_SEC,javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes=$JAVASCRIPT_TEXT_TRANSFORM_RELOAD_INTERVAL_MINUTES" \
-f v2/googlecloud-to-googlecloud
```

## Terraform

Dataflow supports the utilization of Terraform to manage template jobs,
see [dataflow_flex_template_job](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/dataflow_flex_template_job).

Here is an example of Terraform configuration:


```terraform
provider "google-beta" {
  project = var.project
}
variable "project" {
  default = "<my-project>"
}
variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_dataflow_flex_template_job" "stream_gcs_text_to_bigquery_flex" {

  provider          = google-beta
  container_spec_gcs_path = "gs://dataflow-templates-${var.region}/latest/flex/Stream_GCS_Text_to_BigQuery_Flex"
  name              = "stream-gcs-text-to-bigquery-flex"
  region            = var.region
  parameters        = {
    inputFilePattern = "gs://your-bucket/your-file.txt"
    JSONPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-schema.json"
    outputTable = "your-project:your-dataset.your-table"
    javascriptTextTransformGcsPath = "gs://your-bucket/your-transforms/*.js"
    javascriptTextTransformFunctionName = "transform_udf1"
    bigQueryLoadingTemporaryDirectory = "gs://your-bucket/your-files/temp-dir"
    # outputDeadletterTable = "your-project-id:your-dataset.your-table-name"
    # useStorageWriteApi = "false"
    # useStorageWriteApiAtLeastOnce = "false"
    # numStorageWriteApiStreams = "0"
    # storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec = "<storageWriteApiTriggeringFrequencySec>"
    # javascriptTextTransformReloadIntervalMinutes = "0"
  }
}
```
