v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/README.md, before:

# BigQuery to Bigtable Dataflow Template

The [BigQueryToBigtable](src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/BigQueryToBigtable.java) pipeline exports data
from BigQuery using a query into a Cloud Bigtable table.

## Getting Started

### Requirements
* Java 8
* Maven
* BigQuery table exists
* Bigtable table exists with a column family

### Building Template
This is a Flex Template meaning that the pipeline code will be containerized and the container will be
run on Dataflow.

#### Building Container Image
* Set environment variables that will be used in the build process.
```sh
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export IMAGE_NAME=<my-image-name>
export BUCKET_NAME=gs://<bucket-name>
export TARGET_GCR_IMAGE=gcr.io/${PROJECT}/${IMAGE_NAME}
export BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE=gcr.io/dataflow-templates-base/java8-template-launcher-base
export BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_VERSION=latest
export TEMPLATE_MODULE=bigquery-to-bigtable
export APP_ROOT=/template/${TEMPLATE_MODULE}
export COMMAND_SPEC=${APP_ROOT}/resources/${TEMPLATE_MODULE}-command-spec.json
export TEMPLATE_IMAGE_SPEC=${BUCKET_NAME}/images/${TEMPLATE_MODULE}-image-spec.json

export REGION=us-central1
export READ_QUERY="select * from my-table"
export READ_ID_COLUMN=<id>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID=<my-project>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID=<my-instance>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID=<my-table>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY=<my-column-family>

gcloud config set project ${PROJECT}
```
* Build and push image to Google Container Repository from the v2 directory
```sh
mvn clean package \
    -Dimage=${TARGET_GCR_IMAGE} \
    -Dbase-container-image=${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE} \
    -Dbase-container-image.version=${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_VERSION} \
    -Dapp-root=${APP_ROOT} \
    -Dcommand-spec=${COMMAND_SPEC} \
    -am -pl ${TEMPLATE_MODULE}
```

#### Creating Image Spec

Create file in Cloud Storage with path to container image in Google Container Repository.
```sh
echo '{
  "image": "'${TARGET_GCR_IMAGE}'",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "BigQuery to Bigtable",
    "description": "Export BigQuery data into Bigtable",
    "parameters": [
      {
        "name": "readQuery",
        "label": "BigQuery query",
        "helpText": "BigQuery query to export data from",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "readIdColumn",
        "label": "BigQuery query unique column ID",
        "helpText": "BigQuery query unique column ID",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteProjectId",
        "label": "Bigtable project id",
        "helpText": "Bigtable project id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteInstanceId",
        "label": "Bigtable instance id",
        "helpText": "Bigtable instance id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteAppProfile",
        "label": "Bigtable app profile",
        "helpText": "Bigtable app profile to use for the export",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": true
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteTableId",
        "label": "Bigtable table id",
        "helpText": "Bigtable table id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteColumnFamily",
        "label": "Bigtable table column family",
        "helpText": "Bigtable table column family id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      }
    ]
  },
  "sdk_info": {
    "language": "JAVA"
  }
}' > image_spec.json
gsutil cp image_spec.json ${TEMPLATE_IMAGE_SPEC}
rm image_spec.json
```

### Testing Template

The template unit tests can be run using:
```sh
mvn test
```

### Executing Template

The template requires the following parameters:
* readQuery: BigQuery query to export data from
* readIdColumn: BigQuery query unique column ID
* bigtableWriteProjectId: Bigtable project id to write to
* bigtableWriteInstanceId: Bigtable instance id to write to
* bigtableWriteTableId: Bigtable table id to write to
* bigtableWriteColumnFamily: Bigtable table column family id to write to

The template has the following optional parameters:
* bigtableWriteAppProfile: Bigtable app profile to use for the export

Template can be executed using the following gcloud command:
```sh
export JOB_NAME="${TEMPLATE_MODULE}-`date +%Y%m%d-%H%M%S-%N`"
gcloud beta dataflow flex-template run ${JOB_NAME} \
        --project=${PROJECT} --region=${REGION} \
        --template-file-gcs-location=${TEMPLATE_IMAGE_SPEC} \
        --parameters ^~^readQuery="${READ_QUERY}" \
        --parameters readIdColumn=${READ_ID_COLUMN},bigtableWriteProjectId=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID},bigtableWriteInstanceId=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID},bigtableWriteTableId=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID},bigtableWriteColumnFamily=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY}
```

Note: The `^~^` prefix on readQuery is used to make `~` a delimiter instead of
commas. This allows commas to be used in the query. Read more about [gcloud topic escaping](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/topic/escaping).

#### Example query

Here is an example query using a public dataset. It combines a few values into a rowkey with a `#` between each value.

```
export READ_QUERY="SELECT CONCAT(SenderCompID,'#', OrderID) as rowkey, * FROM bigquery-public-data.cymbal_investments.trade_capture_report LIMIT 100"
```

Commit message:

Clearly note that the BigQuery -> Bigtable template is unreleased.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 425949483

v2/bigquery-to-bigtable/README.md, after:

# BigQuery to Bigtable Dataflow Template

The [BigQueryToBigtable](src/main/java/com/google/cloud/teleport/v2/templates/BigQueryToBigtable.java) pipeline exports data
from BigQuery using a query into a Cloud Bigtable table.

NOTE: This template is currently unreleased. If you wish to use it now, you
will need to follow the steps outlined below to add it to and run it from
your own Google Cloud project.

## Getting Started

### Requirements
* Java 8
* Maven
* BigQuery table exists
* Bigtable table exists with a column family

### Building Template
This is a Flex Template meaning that the pipeline code will be containerized and the container will be
run on Dataflow.

#### Building Container Image
* Set environment variables that will be used in the build process.
```sh
export PROJECT=<my-project>
export IMAGE_NAME=<my-image-name>
export BUCKET_NAME=gs://<bucket-name>
export TARGET_GCR_IMAGE=gcr.io/${PROJECT}/${IMAGE_NAME}
export BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE=gcr.io/dataflow-templates-base/java8-template-launcher-base
export BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_VERSION=latest
export TEMPLATE_MODULE=bigquery-to-bigtable
export APP_ROOT=/template/${TEMPLATE_MODULE}
export COMMAND_SPEC=${APP_ROOT}/resources/${TEMPLATE_MODULE}-command-spec.json
export TEMPLATE_IMAGE_SPEC=${BUCKET_NAME}/images/${TEMPLATE_MODULE}-image-spec.json

export REGION=us-central1
export READ_QUERY="select * from my-table"
export READ_ID_COLUMN=<id>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID=<my-project>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID=<my-instance>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID=<my-table>
export BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY=<my-column-family>

gcloud config set project ${PROJECT}
```
* Build and push image to Google Container Repository from the v2 directory
```sh
mvn clean package \
    -Dimage=${TARGET_GCR_IMAGE} \
    -Dbase-container-image=${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE} \
    -Dbase-container-image.version=${BASE_CONTAINER_IMAGE_VERSION} \
    -Dapp-root=${APP_ROOT} \
    -Dcommand-spec=${COMMAND_SPEC} \
    -am -pl ${TEMPLATE_MODULE}
```

#### Creating Image Spec

Create file in Cloud Storage with path to container image in Google Container Repository.
```sh
echo '{
  "image": "'${TARGET_GCR_IMAGE}'",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "BigQuery to Bigtable",
    "description": "Export BigQuery data into Bigtable",
    "parameters": [
      {
        "name": "readQuery",
        "label": "BigQuery query",
        "helpText": "BigQuery query to export data from",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "readIdColumn",
        "label": "BigQuery query unique column ID",
        "helpText": "BigQuery query unique column ID",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteProjectId",
        "label": "Bigtable project id",
        "helpText": "Bigtable project id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteInstanceId",
        "label": "Bigtable instance id",
        "helpText": "Bigtable instance id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteAppProfile",
        "label": "Bigtable app profile",
        "helpText": "Bigtable app profile to use for the export",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": true
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteTableId",
        "label": "Bigtable table id",
        "helpText": "Bigtable table id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      },
      {
        "name": "bigtableWriteColumnFamily",
        "label": "Bigtable table column family",
        "helpText": "Bigtable table column family id to write to",
        "paramType": "TEXT",
        "isOptional": false
      }
    ]
  },
  "sdk_info": {
    "language": "JAVA"
  }
}' > image_spec.json
gsutil cp image_spec.json ${TEMPLATE_IMAGE_SPEC}
rm image_spec.json
```

### Testing Template

The template unit tests can be run using:
```sh
mvn test
```

### Executing Template

The template requires the following parameters:
* readQuery: BigQuery query to export data from
* readIdColumn: BigQuery query unique column ID
* bigtableWriteProjectId: Bigtable project id to write to
* bigtableWriteInstanceId: Bigtable instance id to write to
* bigtableWriteTableId: Bigtable table id to write to
* bigtableWriteColumnFamily: Bigtable table column family id to write to

The template has the following optional parameters:
* bigtableWriteAppProfile: Bigtable app profile to use for the export

Template can be executed using the following gcloud command:
```sh
export JOB_NAME="${TEMPLATE_MODULE}-`date +%Y%m%d-%H%M%S-%N`"
gcloud beta dataflow flex-template run ${JOB_NAME} \
        --project=${PROJECT} --region=${REGION} \
        --template-file-gcs-location=${TEMPLATE_IMAGE_SPEC} \
        --parameters ^~^readQuery="${READ_QUERY}" \
        --parameters readIdColumn=${READ_ID_COLUMN},bigtableWriteProjectId=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_PROJECT_ID},bigtableWriteInstanceId=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_INSTANCE_ID},bigtableWriteTableId=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_TABLE_ID},bigtableWriteColumnFamily=${BIGTABLE_WRITE_COLUMN_FAMILY}
```

Note: The `^~^` prefix on readQuery is used to make `~` a delimiter instead of
commas. This allows commas to be used in the query. Read more about [gcloud topic escaping](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/topic/escaping).

#### Example query

Here is an example query using a public dataset. It combines a few values into a rowkey with a `#` between each value.

```
export READ_QUERY="SELECT CONCAT(SenderCompID,'#', OrderID) as rowkey, * FROM bigquery-public-data.cymbal_investments.trade_capture_report LIMIT 100"
```
